title: Lessons Learned from 10 Years of QE (AEI remarks)
date: 2018-06-07
context_type: speech
url: web
---
1 
 
 
 
American Enterprise Institute: 
Lessons Learned from 10 Years of Quantitative Easing 
 
 
 
The Knowledge Problem 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kevin Warsh 
Shepard Family Distinguished Visiting Fellow in Economics 
Hoover Institution 
Stanford University 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
June 7, 2018 
 

2 
 
“[W]hereas skepticism and uncertainty have always been the heart and soul of science, 
confidence and certainty are the coin of the realm in much of today’s public discourse.” 
 
-- Sue Desmond-Hellman, CEO, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 
 
 
I am honored to be here alongside my Chairman, Ben Bernanke. 
 
Ben was the academic star whose remarkable leadership attributes emerged during our nation’s darkest 
days. And I was fortunate to be at Ben’s side, tasked with distilling market signals and leading a SWAT 
team of immensely talented, tireless Fed professionals. 
 
When the panic of 2008 showed few signs of abating, I was struck by Ben’s preternatural calm, wisdom, 
and humility during the battle. These character traits are no less essential today to secure an enduring 
peace. 
 
Unlike QE’s loudest voices-- zealous supporters and unabashed critics-- Ben and I were “present at the 
creation” in Dean Acheson’s famous words. So, neither of us have clean hands – nor perhaps thoughts 
sufficiently detached – to offer a perfected judgment on the topic, ten years hence. 
 
You can judge whether our launch of QE to help defeat the panic makes us reliable scribes of the next 
draft of history. And you can assess whether my co-authorship of QE1 under Ben’s leadership when we 
were at sea in 2008-- and my decision to get off the boat a couple years later after the waters calmed 
and QE2 was christened—was wise or foolhardy. 
 
QE appears to be getting less attention recently than the heated interest rate debate, as if the hard 
questions around QE are resolved. Whether the FOMC raises short-term rates another 50 or 75 basis 
points this year is incidental to economic growth and employment this year and next. And while the 
FOMC participants may be caricatured as hawks and doves based on their professed ‘dots’, the 
monetary lessons of this era will be found elsewhere. The real money is on central bank balance sheets. 
 
A Decade Ago 
 
If, with a snap of the fingers, you could eavesdrop on our discussions in Ben’s office a decade ago, you 
would hear us conceive of QE1 in a late night “blue sky” discussions. You wound not detect any great 
confidence in QE’s prospects. Nor would you hear us elevate the import of QE over other newfangled 
policy tools. And you would hear no inkling that a decade later the world’s central banks would still be 
carrying more than $10 trillion stock of global QE assets, with hundreds of billions of net global QE 
purchases still being added. 
 
If you traveled back in time and informed us of QE’s dominance a decade later, our faces would look 
more ashen and our spirits sullen, figuring that our monetary experiment failed, a decade of malaise 
ensued, fiscal dominance prevailed, and an unwind of QE proved impossible. We would be shocked to 
hear the juxtaposition in 2018 of peak QE and a global economic boom. 

3 
 
And what if you time-traveled to eavesdrop on our discussion in Ben’s office 8 years ago? During the 
difficult, internal Fed debate in the summer and fall of 2010, we pushed each other on the relative risks 
and rewards of employing war-time policy tools during peace time. I asked a colleague what he would 
advise if QE2 succeeded, and he told me we should probably do more of it. I then asked what should we 
do if QE2 did not succeed, he hesitated, shrugged his shoulders, and said we might well need to do more 
of it. A theory deserves special scrutiny if it can’t be disproved. 
 
What began as an ad hoc, necessary, risky Fed policy response to stem a panic morphed into standard 
operating procedure. The economic regime shifted markedly from crisis to recovery to sustained 
growth. But you would scarcely know it from the stock and flow of QE. 
 
A decade should have been plenty sufficient to provide strong, compelling evidence of the wisdom or 
folly of the QE seriatim experiment. But, it is not. For the central bank community evaluating QE, we are 
still in the thick of history. The ‘mission accomplished’ signs being trotted out by some advocates should 
be stowed away. There is no Q.E.D. to QE, even a decade later. 
 
Preliminary Judgments 
 
Policymakers confront the knowledge problem, which has dogged scientists for millennia. Central 
bankers have no control groups. And with QE, we have neither the benefit of any historical comparison 
nor a natural experiment: most of the rest of the world’s central banks largely remade our policy tool as 
their own. 
 
So, with those heavy heaps of humility in hand, I will offer several judgments, however unprovable at 
this remove. 
 
First, QE1 was a success. But it didn’t work in isolation as a panic antidote. It worked in concert, 
however haphazardly, with other Fed talk and tools on offer. And it probably didn’t work directly. Fed 
purchases brought needed liquidity to illiquid markets, but more so, it crowded in private capital. Our 
liquidity provision bolstered market prices, but higher asset prices were largely the result of improved 
liquidity inducing higher volumes and better matching of bids and offers. 
 
Second, QE2 and its progeny may have had a small, positive impact on employment and output. But 
assigning credit of a couple of tenths of one percent of annual GDP to incremental QE provisioning is 
outside the confidence interval of the profession. Increases in consumption facilitated by lower rates 
and higher asset prices may or may not have been ultimately offset by, among other things, lower 
consumption in the out years and lower non-residential fixed investment, which remained 
anachronistically weak. In fact, the acceleration in output and employment in recent quarters, including 
a notable increase in business capital expenditures, may well be a function of changes in both fiscal 
policy and monetary policy, including some clarity about the Fed’s QE exit plan. 
 
Third, the effect of QE on financial assets is considerably more significant than its effects on real assets 
and the real economy. Stocks, credit and other risk assets currently trade at materially higher values 
than they would absent global QE. Some leading economists seem to believe that QE is now somehow 

4 
 
immaterial to financial asset prices. They believe that stocks and other risk-assets are trading at fair and 
reliable prices in a durable equilibrium. That was largely the Fed’s view in the mid- to late- 2000s when 
the Great Moderation was the consensus moniker for benign conditions and a rosy outlook. Many of us 
deserve some bit of blame for assenting to the notion the U.S. was approaching the end of economic 
history-- that the profession’s knowledge was so advanced such that significant economic shocks could 
be avoided. I fear we are mistaken again. 
 
Fourth, the real returns to household wealth have proven significantly larger than to household income. 
QE, in my view, is a material part of the inequality story. The distributional effects of QE across 
households are significant. Despite all-time highs in stock and home prices, household net worth since 
2007 is down for all income groups except for the top ten 10%. Net worth for the top decile is up an 
average of 27%. For the middle deciles, it’s down 20 to 30% in real terms.1 
 
Fifth, inflation is a poor barometer of the wisdom or folly of QE2 and its successors. Prevailing theories 
of inflation dynamics are not sufficiently robust to allow policymakers to fine-tune the delta between 
current inflation and inflation targets based on incremental stock or flow of QE. Too often, inflation is 
used as a cudgel against QE skeptics. And to those who predicted hyperinflation, an effective rhetorical 
cudgel. But, those of us who were actually in the arena voiced concerns which are not so readily 
dismissed. 
 
My overriding concern about continued QE, then and now, involves the misallocations of capital in the 
economy and the misallocation of responsibility in our government. Misallocations seldom operate 
under their own name. They choose other names to hide behind. They tend to linger for years in plain 
sight. Until they emerge with force at the most inauspicious of times and do unexpected harm to the 
economy. 
 
So What Really Separates QE’s Fiercest Advocates from its Unabashed Critics? 
 
Policymakers evaluate the benefits and risks of QE differently at different points in the economic cycle. 
These differing judgments are often ascribed to differences in economic forecasts. But the recited 
explanation is insufficient. Several questions may help sort out the substantive differences among us. 
 
How important are price signals? 
 
Price signals are precious. Market price, volume, volatility, trend, and correlation are replete with 
information. A policy that seeks to fix or administer a price mutes an invaluable source of insight. So, 
the bar to quashing price signals is a high one. And when the asset is the ten-year U.S Treasury bond, it 
obfuscates the true value of the most important price signal in the world’s financial markets. If price 
signals are judged to be less essential to optimize economic growth, then the adoption of continued QE 
programs is easier to justify. 
 
 
 
1 Deutsche Bank Research, March 2018. 

5 
 
 
How well do policymakers understand and incorporate individuals’ decision-making? 
 
Our economy is highly complex and dynamic. The micro-foundations of macro are central, but 
imperfectly incorporated. Millions of decisions made daily by individuals are irreducible in the most 
sophisticated macroeconomic models. The imposition of a newfangled policy like QE on decision-
makers is more complex than generally acknowledged by QE advocates. As Richard Reis noted: 
“Forecasting when the forecasts cause changes in policy, which make people change their choices, 
which in turn make it required to revise the forecasts, is iteratively hard.” (Reis, 2018). 
 
How should the Fed best accomplish its objectives? 
 
Some are reassured by the quality of economic data, prescient about global economic developments, 
and confident of the effects of policy choices on the economy. That makes fine-tuning GDP, 
employment, and inflation targets unobjectionable. For the rest of us, the knowledge problem is real. It 
inclines us to recognize that business and financial cycles are real and enduring. And inclines us to want 
to direct the Fed’s considerable monetary capabilities to offset major disturbances arising in the 
economy. Focus on the tails, not the median. Large shocks, after all, push the Fed farthest away from 
its inflation and output objectives. Our relative success in dealing with the crisis a decade ago is notable. 
Buying more insurance against a shock in the years that preceded the crisis could have gone a long way. 
 
And finally, how durable is the Fed’s status and responsibilities? 
 
In the course of American history, we have two prior experiments in central banking. That history 
should remind us of the precariousness of the central bank’s powers and the tenuousness of its special 
position in our democracy. So even after the Fed’s recent centennial, we ought not to take our third 
experiment as an independent central bank for granted. 
 
The Fed’s monetary powers are rightly heightened in times of panic when central bank liquidity is most 
needed. When crises erupt, the lines between fiscal and monetary policy becomes blurrier. 
As the crises dissipate, the ex ante allocation of responsibility should become clear and sound. And the 
line between fiscal and monetary policy should be jealously guarded by its protectors on each side. 
 
Conclusion 
 
I come to today’s discussion as a candid friend. We ought not depart from today’s debate and repair to 
the ideological conformity of our own. Ben Bernanke assembled a group of different-minded people to 
prepare for the fight of our lives, and used us each to improve the deliberative process and ensure 
better decision-making. We should embrace a comparable mind-set today. 
 

6 
 
References 
 
Desmond-Hellman, S. (2018) “Be Skeptical of Those Who Treat Science as an Ideology.” Wall Street 
Journal, January 19. 
 
Reis, Richard (2018) “Is Something Really Wrong with Macroeconomics?” Oxford Review of Economic 
Policy, Volume 34: 132-155.
