title: Finishing the Inflation Job and New Challenges for Monetary Policy
date: 2024-01-01
context_type: essay
url: web
---
Books Finishing the Inflation Job and New Challenges for Monetary Policy Experts discuss how the Federal Reserve and international central banks can stabilize inflation in a global environment of disruption—in tariffs, supply chain shocks, the status of the dollar, and international cooperation. CLICK HERE TO BUY Wednesday, April 15, 2026 4
 min read Edited by: Michael D. Bordo , John H. Cochrane , John B. Taylor , Finishing the Inflation Job and New Challenges for Monetary Policy Media master== Hoover Institution Press Books by Hoover Fellows Blank Issue (Placeholder Only) Blank Issue (Placeholder Only) Economics Monetary Policy Answering Challenges to Advanced Economies How should the Fed finish the inflation-reduction job and prepare for the changing world ahead, addressing challenges of tariffs, supply chain “shocks,” and changes in the status of the dollar and the nature of international cooperation? Finishing the Inflation Job and New Challenges for Monetary Policy collects essays and discussions from the annual Hoover Institution Monetary Policy Conference, held on May 9, 2025, exploring these themes and considering other big-picture issues that affect monetary policy in this volatile international environment. Each year, the conference brings together academics, policymakers, media members, and others to consider the issues affecting monetary policy, both in the United States and worldwide. In her welcoming remarks to the conference, Hoover Director Condoleezza Rice sets the tone, stating that the United States is “experiencing an avalanche of uncertainty,” with everything about the international order in question, including the United States’ role in it. With inflation still stubbornly above the Federal Reserve’s 2% target at the time of the conference, how to finish the inflation-reduction job was a natural point of focus. But contributors also explore in depth many other challenges and questions on monetary policy that lie ahead: How should central banks counter a new surge of inflation, should one arise? What lessons should we take from the 2021–22 inflationary episode? Are tariffs the next supply shock? How should central banks adapt their formal strategies, constructed in an era of zero-interest rates and low inflation? How should financial regulation adapt to the uncertainties of geopolitics and the big technological innovations going on around us? This year’s conference included a celebration of the life and career of John B. Taylor. Many essays convey this spirit of homage, noting the influence of Taylor and the Taylor rule on policymaking. Among its eight sections, the book proceeds by exploring current issues in finance and the financial regulation of cryptocurrency, the growing role of private credit, and how the history of the price stability objective reverberates in the present day. Monetary policy must adapt to this very new world. Other contributors Alan J. Auerbach, Michael D. Bordo, Michael J. Boskin, James B. Bullard, Charles W. Calomiris, Agustín G. Carstens, John H. Cochrane, John F. Cogan, Lisa D. Cook, Darrell Duffie, Kristin J. Forbes, Luis Garicano, Beth M. Hammack, Peter Blair Henry, Peter N. Ireland, Harold James, Arvind Krishnamurthy, Ross Levine, Mickey D. Levy, Hanno Lustig, Matteo Maggiori, H.R. McMaster, Christopher M. Meissner, Loretta J. Mester, Alberto G. Musalem, Charles I. Plosser, Condoleezza Rice, Isabel Schnabel, Torsten Slok, François R. Velde, Christopher J. Waller, Kevin M. Warsh, Volker Wieland, John C. Williams Contents Preface Michael D. Bordo and John H. Cochrane Welcoming Remarks Condoleezza Rice John Taylor and Taylor Rules in Policy Introduction Volker Wieland 1. Celebrating John Taylor John C. Williams 2. John Taylor: A Reflection Agustín G. Carstens 3.Thank You, John Christopher J. Waller 4. Disciplined Judgement in Monetary Policymaking Loretta J. Mester 5. Discretion Continues to Thwart Fed Efforts to Make Credible Commitments Charles I. Plosser 6. Lessons Learned and the Path Ahead Kevin M. Warsh General Discussion Volker Wieland, Harald Uhlig, Robert J. Barro, Jason Furman, Robert G. King, Pablo Villanueva, Kevin M. Warsh, Christopher J. Waller, Loretta J. Mester, Charles I. Plosser Digital Assets, Payment Systems, and Financial Regulation Introduction Arvind Krishnamurthy 7. Tokenizing Reserves and Treasuries Darrell Duffie 8. Let Banks Compete: Digital Money’s Challenge to Europe’s Protected Banking Model Luis Garicano 9. How Stablecoins Will Transform Banking Charles W. Calomiris Finishing the Job, Risks Ahead Introduction Mickey D. Levy 10. Targeting Nominal GDP: A Monetarist Cross-Check for “Finishing the Job” Peter N. Ireland 11. Fighting Inflation after the Pandemic: Lessons for the Next Battle Kristin J. Forbes 12. Three Suggestions for Improved Macroeconomic and Monetary Policy James B. Bullard General Discussion Mickey D. Levy, Kristin J. Forbes, James B. Bullard, Jason Furman, Michael J. Boskin, Steven J. Davis, Evan Koenig, Sebastián Edwards, Peter N. Ireland The Growing Role of Private Credit Introduction Michael D. Bordo 13. The Growing Role of Private Credit Torsten Slok Global and Strategic Issues: Implications for Monetary and Fiscal Policy Introduction Power and Prosperity—Brief Remarks on Economics and National Security Ross Levine 14. Unalienable Rights and Unbridled Entrepreneurship: Maintaining the Free World’s Competitive Advantages H.R. McMaster 15. Remarks on US Fiscal and Geoeconomic Risks Matteo Maggiori 16. Tariffs, Trade Wars, and Economic Policy as if History Matters Christopher M. Meissner 17. Geopolitical Uncertainty and Economic Policy Harold James General Discussion Ross Levine, Sebastián Edwards, Steven J. Davis, Matteo Maggiori, Harold James, Christopher M. Meissner, Krishna Guha, Kana Norimoto, Michael J. Boskin, H.R. McMaster Fiscal Sustainability Issues and Their Implications for Monetary Policy Introduction John F. Cogan 18. Fiscal Unsustainability and the Risk of Inflation Alan J. Auerbach 19. Comments on Fiscal Policy and Its Interactions with Monetary Policy Michael J. Boskin 20. Fiscal Sustainability and Price Discovery in Government Bond Markets Hanno Lustig 21. Fiscal Constraints on Monetary Policy John H. Cochrane General Discussion John F. Cogan, Laurence M. Ball, Sebastián Edwards, Mickey D. Levy, Patrick Kehoe, Isabel Schnabel, John H. Cochrane, Hanno Lustig, Michael J. Boskin, Alan J. Auerbach Policy Panel Introduction Peter Blair Henry 22. Keeping a Steady Hand in an Unsteady World Isabel Schnabel 23. US Economy Scenarios and Monetary Policy Response Alberto G. Musalem 24. The Outlook for the Economy and Monetary Policy Beth M. Hammack 25. Opening Remarks on Productivity Dynamics Lisa D. Cook General Discussion Peter Blair Henry, David Papell, Darrell J. Duffie, Jason Furman, John H. Cochrane, Lisa D. Cook, Isabel Schnabel, Beth M. Hammack, Alberto G. Musalem, Torsten Slok, James B. Bullard, Patrick Kehoe, Elena Pastorino X The Long History of the Price Stability Objective Introduction Michael D. Bordo 26. The Long History of the Price Stability Objective François R. Velde General Discussion Michael D. Bordo, James B. Bullard, Andrew T. Levin, Sebastián Edwards, Jon Hartley, Hoyt Bleakley, Robert J. Barro About the Contributors About the Hoover Institution’s Economic Policy Working Group View the Conference Finishing the Job and New Challenges About the Editors Michael D. Bordo is a visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution; and a Board of Governors Professor of Economics and director of the Center for Monetary and Financial History at Rutgers University. John H. Cochrane is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, a research associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research, and an adjunct scholar of the Cato Institute. John B. Taylor is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution; and the Mary and Robert Raymond Professor of Economics and director of the Introductory Economics Center at Stanford University. View the discussion thread. Join the Hoover Institution’s community of supporters in ideas advancing freedom. Support Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
